---
title: "d4-goclient v0.4 released"
date: 2020-04-28
layout: post
categories: 
tags: 
image: assets/images/gopherd4_redis.png
---

# Table of Contents

1.  [Behavior changes](#org3b73407)
2.  [D4 forward](#org1782258)

[d4-goclient v0.4](https://github.com/D4-project/d4-goclient/releases/tag/v0.4) has been released with several improvements and the addition of
one major feature: the ability to forward data natively between d4 servers with
the go client without using an analyzer to query the source d4 server.

We discuss here some behavior changes that appear in the release `CHANGELOG`.

<a id="org3b73407"></a>

# Behavior changes

- `chg: [main] no exit unless specified`
- `chg: [main] rate limiter when reaching EOF`

With this release, d4-goclient will behave differently: it won't stop on EOF by
default but instead continue to poll the source for new element to ship to the
destination. This change comes with the ability to limit the rate at which the
source will be polled. This is controlled by the new rate limiter flag `-rl` set
by default at 200ms. To regain the previous behavior, one should append the
flag `-rt` set to 0 when launching the program.

- `chg: [main] no output on stdout unless specified`
- `chg: [log] proper log file`

d4-goclient had the silly behavior to write some information that should go into
a log file into `stdout`. This was not an issue while having a network destination
but posed unnecessary parsing issues when sending to `stdout`. This is now fixed and
all logging lines go into a `d4-goclient.log` file.


<a id="org1782258"></a>

# D4 forward

- `add: [input]  d4 forward from d4 server redis`

Here comes the new feature that will considerably ease communications between D4
servers and other tools that can push into a redis queue. Consider [this blog
post](https://d4-project.org/2019/06/17/sharing-between-D4-sensors.html) where we describe how to forward traffic from a server to another:

{% highlight shell %}
$ ./d4-stdout.py -t 1 -u 84723644-0841-4580-97e9-23e98682739c -f | zcat | tcprewrite --pnat=10.1.0.0/16:192.168.0.0/16 -i - -o - | d4-goclient -c ~/conf.sample 
{% endhighlight %}

In this particular situation we use tcprewrite to remove some private IP
addresses. But in a case where this is not necessary we would be left with using
an analyzer to write to `stdout`, only to pipe `stdin` again in a d4 client:

{% highlight shell %}
$ ./d4-stdout.py -t 1 -u 84723644-0841-4580-97e9-23e98682739c -f | d4-goclient -c ~/conf.sample 
{% endhighlight %}

This was an unnecessary step and this is now fixed with the new release of the go client:

{% highlight shell %}
$ d4-goclient -c ~/conf.sample 
{% endhighlight %}

This will actually do the same job if in conf.sample:

-   `redis_d4` is a file that points the location of the source redis server/database. For instance:

{% highlight shell %}
127.0.0.1:6380/2
{% endhighlight %}

-   `redis_queue` is a file that points the queue to pop. For instance:

{% highlight shell %}
analyzer:3:d42967c1-f7ad-464e-bbc7-4464c653d7a6
{% endhighlight %}

What's up with `analyzer:3`, and specifying the right database? Well, the client
does not treat d4 server's redis differently that any other redis. This has the
nice implication that the client can be used to pop any redis queue, not only
d4. We will make use of this property in our next blog post in which we will
show how to use [Apache NiFi](https://nifi.apache.org/) with D4.

Stay tuned.
